---
layout: page
title: geowall-NGC's photo of the day as Ubuntu wallpaper
description: a simple script to download the National Geographic channel's photo of the day and set it as your Ubuntu wallpaper.
---

__Why ?__  

I believe automation is an integral part of technology, and scripts are a great way to automate your tasks. 

__What__  

I like my wallpaper to be _dynamic_, _unexpected_, _natural_ and _beautiful_ at the same time. All this come together in National Geographic Channel's photo of the day. I knew it will be the perfect wallpaper. 
But to download and apply the wallpaper daily is just unethical for a coder. So I decided to write a script to do exactly that. 

__Research__  

The first thing to do was to find out where to get the NGC's photo of the day.  

A simple Google search revealed that it resides at the address *http://photography.nationalgeographic.co.in/photography/photo-of-the-day/* 

__Steps__ 
* Download the webpage at the above address.
* Extract the url for the image.
* Download the image.
* Set the wallpaper


__Downloading the page__  

Ok, so I have the url of the page. Using this, I can get the whole page using wget and save it in a file in the /tmp folder.   
{% highlight bash %}
wget --quiet http://photography.nationalgeographic.co.in/photography/photo-of-the-day/ -O /tmp/ngc.html
{% endhighlight %}

__Extracting the url__

After having a look at the source code, I could see a pattern and write a grep command
{% highlight bash %}
url=`grep -o -m 1 images.nationalgeographic.com/wpf/media-live/photos/.*x.*jpg /tmp/ngc.html`
{% endhighlight %}

Now the url to the image is saved in the bash variable "url".

__Downloading the photo__

wget comes handy again. 
{% highlight bash %}
wget --quiet http://$url -O /tmp/pic.jpg
{% endhighlight %}

__Setting the wallpaper__

Finally, set the downloaded wallpaper (in Ubuntu)
{% highlight bash %}
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.background picture-uri file:///tmp/pic.jpg
{% endhighlight %}

That's it! I encourage you to view, download and contribute to the script on [Github](http://github.com/anshulk/geowall).

Thanks for reading. Do comment!

