---
layout: page
title: No rule to make target "syscall_32.tbl"
---

###The beginning
I recently got into kernel module programming along with my friend [Rohit](http://technocratrohit.blogspot.com). We were following the tutorial [here](http://tldp.org/LDP/lkmpg/2.6/html/lkmpg.html) and we stumbled upon an error.

###The Error
When running `sudo make`, we got : 
{% highlight sh %}
anshul@aiice:~/modules$ sudo make
make -C /lib/modules/3.12.0-031200-generic/build M= modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-3.12.0-031200-generic'
make[2]: *** No rule to make target `/usr/src/linux-headers-3.12.0-031200-generic/
arch/x86/syscalls/syscall_32.tbl', needed by `
arch/x86/syscalls/../include/generated/uapi/asm/unistd_32.h'.  Stop.
make[1]: *** [archheaders] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-3.12.0-031200-generic'
make: *** [all] Error 2
{% endhighlight %}

This is the Makefile we were using as given on the tutorial : 
{% highlight make %}

obj-m += hello-1.o
all:
	make -C /lib/modules/$(shell uname -r)/build M=$(PWD) modules

clean:
	make -C /lib/modules/$(shell uname -r)/build M=$(PWD) clean
{% endhighlight %}

###The Reason
At last we had to look the output ourselves.  
You can notice that M is getting no value. (See M= in the first output line of make.)  

That means `M=$(PWD)` in the Makefile is wrong. It would have worked if PWD had been defined in the shell beforehand. But this is not so, we need to replace it with something that returns the present working directory (PWD). 

###The Solution
That can be done perfectly with `$(shell pwd)`. So just replace `M=$(PWD)` with `M=$(shell pwd)` in the `Makefile`.

Worked perfectly for me. Hope it saves some time for you. 

Thanks for reading. Do comment. 
